Kosh-Linux by KoshTech


A Linux Distribuition with tools writen in Ruby. Can a Linux distribution be an MVC WEB application?

A Linux from scratch built-in with tools written in ruby language. Its currently in development of tool chain build system, that will be used to build a linux system it self. Some of major changes will be implemented in init and run levels systems. In an second redesign, I plan to redefine the linux file system, using an modern and intuitive fs layout, like GoboLinux, but I have no plans to maintain any compatibility or standards. 


My modifications will includes:

- RubyInitd, a intelligent init and monitoring system.
- KoshLinux package manager system, based on YML or pure Ruby recipes to build and tar bz files for compiled packages.
- Ruby Web Interface to system admin and user preferences.
- All using SqLite to store configurations and service informations.
- And also managed by command line tools.


Features

- Compile source code for package from a Recipe
- Really Simple Stupid dependency system implemented current Recipe
- Create a complete bootstrap system for compile a base system GNU based on Linux From Scratch Howtos


Dependencies

To build Kosh Linux Tool Chain, you need these packages installed on your system:

 bash binutils bison bzip2 coreutils diff gawk gcc libc6 grep gzip m4 make patch perl sed tar
texinfo git ruby build-essential

Note: The dependence list are base on builds under Debian/Ubuntu systems. In that systems, the follow line can install all necessary packages:

 $ apt-get install bash binutils bison bzip2 coreutils diff gawk gcc libc6 grep gzip m4 make patch
perl sed tar texinfo git ruby build-essential


Install

It's simple. Just do:

 $ git clone git@github.com:KoshTech/Kosh-Linux.git

Then cd into Build folder:

 $ cd Kosh-Linux/DevelSystem/Build

If you want to use a development branch, do:

 $ git checkout devel

You can use a lite script to check the Build dependence on you host machine:

 $ ./check_requirements.sh

Look at messages generated by the script. If no errors are visible, you system is Ok to build process.

To start the build, run:

 $ ./build_system.rb


Build Screenshots


License

Kosh Linux is developed under Open Source Initiative OSI - Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL).


Authors

Fernando Kosh (hi.im/fernandokosh)
Rui Andrada (hi.im/shingonoide)


Contact

KoshTech (admin@koshlinux.com)


Download

You can download this project in either zip or tar formats.
You can also clone the project with Git by running:

 $ git clone git://github.com/KoshTech/Kosh-Linux


[WIP]
